- [Instructor] Modern desktop operating systems
have built-in features to help protect your computer
from being compromised by problems like viruses and hackers.
There's always more you can do
to ensure the security of your data,
but at the bare minimum,
you should check that the basic security features
of your computer are enabled.
For example, here in Windows 10,
we can go to our System Control Panel
by typing control panel in the Cortana search field,
selecting it here.
And from here we can select System and Security.
Here you'll find Windows Defender Firewall,
which is a built-in service
that helps protect your computer
from unauthorized access over your network
and over the Internet.
It can defend against malicious software and hackers
that may attempt to gain access to your computer.
Windows Defender should be enabled by default,
but it's a good idea to make sure.
Click its name
and then click Turn Windows Defender firewall on or off.
Make sure Turn on Windows Defender Firewall
is enabled under both the private
and public network settings areas.
And also make sure that both instances
have Notify me when Windows Defender Firewall
blocks a new app are checked.
This will have your system alert you
if any application tries to gain access to your computer,
so you can determine whether to allow it that access.
Now, Windows 10 also includes built-in antivirus features.
You can check and configure its settings
by going to the Start Menu, to Settings,
and then Update and Security.
Here, select Windows Security,
and click Virus and threat protection.
By default, Windows periodically scans for viruses.
But if you suspect your system
may have been compromised by a virus,
you can click on Scan Options
to choose the level of scan you want to perform.
And then click Scan Now to have Windows check for viruses.
Again, both Windows Defender
and Windows antivirus features are enabled by default,
but it's still a good idea to check your own computer
to make sure they're enabled and running.